
<!--Title -->
--- Week 1 of Phase 0
<!--Subtitle-->
--- Command line, git, and Github
<!--Date-->
--- Wednesday, October 29th, 2014
<!--Paragraph 1-->
----I'll start my very first blog off by intoducing my-self. My name is Walt and I am an aspiring Web developer. This is my first week in Phase 1 at Dev Bootcamp and I'm going to be blogin' about the information I learned this week.
<!--Paragraph 2-->
----The very first thing we learned is the command line interface or CLI. It's sounds, and possibly looks, very intimidating for a computer newbie (or newb). It's really not as bad as it looks... You can think of it like the visual interface you use everyday, you are just typing commands to navigate around your computer instead of pointing and clicking on folders. Here is a link you can copy and paste to look at some CLI command {cli.learncodethehardway.org/book/} (for MAC). I'm not going to give a link for Windows computers because I do not have experience using that OS as of late, however there are plenty of resorces online. Remember if your ever not sure about anything just "Google" it (or whatever searce engine you prefer). There is tons of information out there for the taking don't ever just give up because you "don't know how" to do something.
<!--Paragraph 3-->
----I would say that this weeks focus was primarily on version control. Version control is something that was competely new to me, and makes absolute perfect sence when you think about it. Imagine you have six developers working on the same project. Then you have two of them working on the same line of code. Now how would they communicate between the two of them? And what is one person makes changes then the other one overwrites those changes? Basiclly, it could turn messy very quicklly... So that's where git comes in. Git keeps a log of all changes made to files on your computer and the files on a host site (like Github).
----So here's the entire process... First you would start by "pull"ing down the file/program from the host site (in my case it was Github). The you start making changes, and lets assume that someone else is also making changes to the same file/program. Now you want to save you changes, so you are going to "commit" your changes. You would (btw you will be using the CLI for most/all of this) "add" changes you want to "commit" to the stage then "push" those commit changes to the host (Github), for all to see. Git has many built in functions, including a function that flags "Merge Conflics". A merge conflict is when, lets say, you change a line of code then someone else changes the same line of code... You push, they push, a merge conflict is born. The git software flags it and allows you to decide which peice of code you want to keep and push to the master copy... When you are working with a group of developers it's Git is a very important tool for version control that devlopers use every day. This was a very breif and generic description of git and I recommend learning git yourself on this Website!{https://www.codeschool.com/courses/git-real}
----Github is an awesome tool that you can use to store code online. This becomes particularly usefull when you are working on a project with others. And, to the best of my personal understanding, you will primarialy be working with other developers on projects so Github or something similar will be an essential tool that will be used very frequently. You can also just browse through Github and check out peoples code (that have it opened to the public that is). This is a valuable tool that every developer should take advantage of to impove their/my/your own code. Sometimes just looking at another developers code and how they solved a particular problem can shine some light on a similar problem you may be having. It's an awesome tool and I am happy that I got familure with it in week 1 of phase 0 at Dev Bootcamp.